Create Blog “bulk-onboarding-of-users-in-hpe-greenlake-edge-to-cloud-platform” (#2500)
hpe-dev-incubator/hpe-dev-portal: content/blog/bulk-onboarding-of-users-in-hpe-greenlake-edge-to-cloud-platform.md

* [Get started with the foundational APIs for the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform – Part 2: Configuring and managing a workspace](https://developer.hpe.com/blog/get-started-with-the-foundational-apis-for-the-hpe-greenlake-edge-to-cloud-platform-%E2%80%93-part-2-configuring-and-managing-a-workspace/)
* [Get started with the foundational APIs for the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform – Part 3: Tracking activities and monitoring health](https://developer.hpe.com/blog/get-started-with-the-foundational-apis-for-the-hpe-greenlake-edge-to-cloud-platform-%E2%80%93-part-3-tracking-activities-and-monitoring-health/)

In this blog post, I will focus on one specific API call, part of Identity Management. The call is a `POST /identity/v1/users`, which invites users to an HPE GreenLake workspace. Full documentation on this API call can be found in the [HPE GreenLake developer portal](https://developer.greenlake.hpe.com/docs/greenlake/services/iam/workspaces/public/openapi/workspaces-v1/operation/invite_user_to_account_identity_v1_users_post/).

## Providing the right data to the script

> Before writing any code, it’s important to understand what data is required to invite a user. According to the [API reference](https://developer.greenlake.hpe.com/docs/greenlake/services/iam/workspaces/public/openapi/workspaces-v1/operation/invite_user_to_account_identity_v1_users_post/), one simply needs the email address of the invited user. That’s easy! In the documentation, you can also see that there is no way to select a workspace to invite the user to. The reason for this is that the API credentials used to make the call is workspace specific, so it implicitly provides the workspace to which the user will be invited to. This means that one needs to collect API access credentials for every workspace that to the users are added to. For the script I am writing here, in a Workspace tab, I have stored the Client Id corresponding to API Access of a given Workspace. Because I don’t want to save Client Secrets, I will prompt for them and store them in memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before writing any code, it’s important to understand what data is required to invite a user. You only need the email address of the invited user- that’s easy! In the [API reference](https://developer.greenlake.hpe.com/docs/greenlake/services/iam/workspaces/public/openapi/workspaces-v1/operation/invite_user_to_account_identity_v1_users_post/), you'll also see that there is no way to select a workspace to invite the user to. The reason for this is that the API credentials used to make the call is workspace specific, so it implicitly provides the workspace to which the user will be invited to. This means that you need to collect API access credentials for every workspace that you're adding users to. For the script I am writing here, in the Workspaces tab, I have stored the Client Id corresponding to API Access of a given Workspace. Because I don’t want to save Client Secrets, I will prompt for them and store them in memory.
```

So, my Excel file contains the following 2 sheets:

![Users tab in Excel](/img/bulkimport-blog-picture-1.png "Users tab in Excel")

![Workspaces tab in Excel](/img/bulkimport-blog-picture-2.png "Workspaces tab in Excel")

## High-level algorithm

> Let’s look at the steps necessary to invite users from my spreadsheets:

Reviewer: The font sizes look a bit weird in the preview. Should the font size for Step 1&2 not match 3,4 and 5?

            $secClientSecret = read-host  "Enter HPE GreenLake Client Secret for Workspace $workspace_name" -AsSecureString
            $bstr = [System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal]::SecureStringToBSTR($secClientSecret)
            $secret = [System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal]::PtrToStringBSTR($bstr)
                        
            # use Client Id and Client Secret to retrieve a token
            $body = "grant_type=client_credentials&client_id=" + $client_id + "&client_secret=" + $secret
            $headers = @{} 
            $headers["Content-Type"] = "application/x-www-form-urlencoded"
            
            try {
                $response = Invoke-webrequest "https://sso.common.cloud.hpe.com/as/token.oauth2" -Method POST -Headers $headers -Body $body
                # store the token for future use
                $AccessToken = ($response.Content  | Convertfrom-Json).access_token
                $tokens.Add($client_id,$AccessToken)
            }
            catch {
                Write-Host "Error retrieving access token for workspace $workspace_name!" -ForegroundColor Red 
                exit
            }
        }
    }
```

> Note that, at the end of this loop, I have a hash table of tokens indexed by Client Id, which I will use to call the API in the next section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that, at the end of this loop, I have a hash table of tokens indexed by Client Id, which I will use to call the API in the next section.
```

    $headers = @{} 
    $AccessToken = $tokens[$client_id]
    $headers["Authorization"] = "Bearer $AccessToken"
    $headers["Accept"] = "application/json"
    $headers["Content-Type"] = "application/json"
    try {
        $response = Invoke-webrequest "https://global.api.greenlake.hpe.com/identity/v1/users?filter=&limit=300&offset=0" -Method GET -Headers $headers
    }
    catch {
        Write-Host "Cannot get list of users!!" 
        exit
    }
    $invited_users=$invited[$client_id]
    Write-Host $invited_users "user(s) invited to workspace" $workspace_name
    Write-Host "List of users in workspace:" $workspace_name
    
    $_list                     = $response.Content | ConvertFrom-Json
    if ($null -ne $_list)
    {
        $_users_list        =  [System.Collections.ArrayList]::new()
        
        foreach ($_u in $_list.Items)
        {
            
            $_users_list        += @{
                'Username'      = $_u.Username
                'Status'        = $_u.userStatus
                'id'            = $_u.Id
            }
        }
        
    }
    
    $_users_list | select Username, Status | ft -AutoSize
    
}
```

## Try it!

> Let’s run this script, making sure to reference the right Excel spreadsheet: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let’s run this script, making sure to reference the correct Excel spreadsheet: 
```

Error sending invite for yyy@lalli.fr ! Already onboarded?
Inviting user zzz@lalli.fr to workspace  Super Awesome Company
Inviting user www@gmail.com to workspace  Super Awesome Company                                                
Error sending invite for www@gmail.com ! Already onboarded?
Done processing Excel file userlist.xlsx!

1 user(s) invited to workspace HPEDEV -GLCP- Hackshack                                                                  
List of users in workspace: HPEDEV -GLCP- Hackshack

Username                     Status
--------                     ------
<email>                     VERIFIED
…
yyy@lalli.fr	            VERIFIED
…
xxx@gmail.com               UNVERIFIED
…
<email>                     VERIFIED

1 user(s) invited to workspace Super Awesome Company                                                                    
List of users in workspace: Super Awesome Company

Username                          Status
--------                          ------
<email>                          VERIFIED
…
www@gmail.com 	                 VERIFIED
…
xxx@lalli.fr                     UNVERIFIED
…
<email>                          VERIFIED
```

> As you can see, the script has invited 1 user in each workspace, the second email being already a member of the workspace (thus no action is necessary). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see, the script has invited 1 user in each workspace. The second email address is already a member of the workspace, so no action is necessary. 
```

## What’s next?

Through this post, I have shown you how it is possible to integrate with HPE GreenLake platform using the most popular scripting languages, such as PowerShell. You can get the source code for these scripts from [our community tooling repository](https://github.com/hpe-dev-incubator/GLP-API-Tooling).  

If you’re interested in trying out what I just discussed, you might first want to check out one of our hands-on Workshops-on-Demand that lets you play with the HPE GreenLake APIs mentioned in this blog post. The workshops are free, available 24/7, and very easy to use. They give you a real-world experience without any risk. Check out our [catalog of workshops](https://developer.hpe.com/hackshack/workshops), register for the one you’re interested in and go! It’s as simple as that. 

> If you still have any questions regarding the HPE GreenLake platform APIs, join the [HPE Developer Community Slack Workspace](https://developer.hpe.com/slack-signup/) and start a discussion on our [\#hpe-greenlake-api](https://hpedev.slack.com/archives/C02EG5XFK8Q) channel. We are always here to help.

Reviewer 2: Test suggestion to see if I can contribute to this repo (but the "any" isn't really needed).

```suggestion
If you still have questions regarding the HPE GreenLake platform APIs, join the [HPE Developer Community Slack Workspace](https://developer.hpe.com/slack-signup/) and start a discussion on our [\#hpe-greenlake-api](https://hpedev.slack.com/archives/C02EG5XFK8Q) channel. We are always here to help.
```
